README.md, before:

## Overview

This is a set of scripts to perform an automatic deployment of the next gen sequencing analysis [pipeline][o1]. You can do it in two ways:
* Configure and install the pipeline in [UPPMAX][o5] (see detail below)
* Perform a local installation of the pipeline within a virtual machine.
* Install the pipeline locally in your machine

Current build status: [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/guillermo-carrasco/bcbio-nextgen-deploy.png)](http://travis-ci.org/guillermo-carrasco/bcbio-nextgen-deploy)

## Installation in UPPMAX

### Install

To configure and install the pipeline in UPPMAX you just have to execute the following command (after cloning this repository):

            python deploy_non_root.py install

This will:
* Set up virtualenvwrapper creating and configuring a proper virtual environment
* Set up the config directory containing the configuration files for the pipeline
* Set up custom modules with correct software versions
* Set up bcbb pipeline code properly
* Download and install SciLifeLab utility scripts
* Run the testsuite in background:
    * This will run a job that will write the tests results in ~/opt/bcbb/nextgen/tests/tests_results.out
    * You'll find also an XML file with a summary of the test results in ~/opt/bcbb/nextgen/tests/nosetests.xml

### Remove

To *completely* remove the pipeline and all its configuration execute:
            python deploy_non_root.py purge


## Local installation within a virtual machine

### Requirements

All the software and dependencies needed by the pipeline are automatically downloaded and installed. However, you need to install the necessary tools for running this script:
* [Vagrant][o2] - To download and install the Virtual Machine
* [Python fabric][o3] - To run the main script

Furthermore, in order to correctly execute all the tests, please *have in mind that 2GB of memory are reserved for the Virtual Machine when it's on*.

### Installing the pipeline and running the test suite
To install the virtual machine, the pipeline within it and run the tests, just type:

            fab -f deploy_on_vm.py install

And the script will start installing the virtual machine and the pipeline and, when finished, will run the tests.

###Notes
After the installation has finished and the tests have run, you can connect to the VM and take a look at the tests results using the command:

            vagrant ssh

After that, you can turn off the virtual machine with:

            vagrant halt

You can always turn on the virtual machine again with the command:

            vagrant up

So you'll have a Virtual Machine whith the pipeline installed to test it whenever you want without installing any software in your system but vagrant and fabric.

For more information about how vagrant works, refear to the [vagrant guide][o4]

## Local installation

To install the pipeline in your machine, execute the command:
            python deploy_non_root.py install

*NOTE*: The installation of the pipeline itself doesn't need root permissions, but in this case, you have to take care of the installation of all the software dependencies of the pipeline. Read the [pipeline documentation][o1] for more information about what software do you need.

## Important note about the purge function

This will completely remove the directories and configuration files created during the pipeline installation, including master virtualenv with all python dependencies installed, and restoring all the configuration files modified during the installation (.bashrc, etc)

[o1]: https://github.com/scilifelab/bcbb/tree/master/nextgen
[o2]: http://vagrantup.com/
[o3]: http://docs.fabfile.org/en/1.4.3/index.html
[o4]: http://vagrantup.com/v1/docs/getting-started/index.html
[o5]: http://www.uppmax.uu.se/

Commit message:

Renamed purge by uninstall [ci skip]

README.md, after:

## Overview

This is a set of scripts to perform an automatic deployment of the next gen sequencing analysis [pipeline][o1]. You can do it in two ways:
* Configure and install the pipeline in [UPPMAX][o5] (see detail below)
* Perform a local installation of the pipeline within a virtual machine.
* Install the pipeline locally in your machine

Current build status: [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/guillermo-carrasco/bcbio-nextgen-deploy.png)](http://travis-ci.org/guillermo-carrasco/bcbio-nextgen-deploy)

## Installation in UPPMAX

### Install

To configure and install the pipeline in UPPMAX you just have to execute the following command (after cloning this repository):

            python deploy_non_root.py install

This will:
* Set up virtualenvwrapper creating and configuring a proper virtual environment
* Set up the config directory containing the configuration files for the pipeline
* Set up custom modules with correct software versions
* Set up bcbb pipeline code properly
* Download and install SciLifeLab utility scripts
* Run the testsuite in background:
    * This will run a job that will write the tests results in ~/opt/bcbb/nextgen/tests/tests_results.out
    * You'll find also an XML file with a summary of the test results in ~/opt/bcbb/nextgen/tests/nosetests.xml

### Uninstall

To *completely* uninstall the pipeline and all its configuration files/directories execute:
            python deploy_non_root.py uninstall


## Local installation within a virtual machine

### Requirements

All the software and dependencies needed by the pipeline are automatically downloaded and installed. However, you need to install the necessary tools for running this script:
* [Vagrant][o2] - To download and install the Virtual Machine
* [Python fabric][o3] - To run the main script

Furthermore, in order to correctly execute all the tests, please *have in mind that 2GB of memory are reserved for the Virtual Machine when it's on*.

### Installing the pipeline and running the test suite
To install the virtual machine, the pipeline within it and run the tests, just type:

            fab -f deploy_on_vm.py install

And the script will start installing the virtual machine and the pipeline and, when finished, will run the tests.

###Notes
After the installation has finished and the tests have run, you can connect to the VM and take a look at the tests results using the command:

            vagrant ssh

After that, you can turn off the virtual machine with:

            vagrant halt

You can always turn on the virtual machine again with the command:

            vagrant up

So you'll have a Virtual Machine whith the pipeline installed to test it whenever you want without installing any software in your system but vagrant and fabric.

For more information about how vagrant works, refear to the [vagrant guide][o4]

## Local installation

To install the pipeline in your machine, execute the command:
            python deploy_non_root.py install

*NOTE*: The installation of the pipeline itself doesn't need root permissions, but in this case, you have to take care of the installation of all the software dependencies of the pipeline. Read the [pipeline documentation][o1] for more information about what software do you need.

## Important note about the uninstall function

This will completely remove the directories and configuration files created during the pipeline installation, including master virtualenv with all python dependencies installed, and restoring all the configuration files modified during the installation (.bashrc, etc)

[o1]: https://github.com/scilifelab/bcbb/tree/master/nextgen
[o2]: http://vagrantup.com/
[o3]: http://docs.fabfile.org/en/1.4.3/index.html
[o4]: http://vagrantup.com/v1/docs/getting-started/index.html
[o5]: http://www.uppmax.uu.se/
